
engrossed 
overwhelmed 

prevail - to prove more power or superiority 

Inspire
Despise - to hate somebody/something very much
Gravitas- high seriousness
Leverage- taking maximum benefits
Gain traction  
 
fanatical-obsessively concerned with something, extrimist
Conjecture- an opinion or conclusion formed on the basis of incomplete information
Hapless- unfortunate, unlucky, luckyless, out of luck
Exaggerate- to strech the truth or to make something seem bigger than it is. Represent as being larger, better or worse than it really is.
Recrimination- an accusation in response to one from someone else.


Truculent-  eager or quick to argue or fight; aggressively defiant.
Umbrage- offense, insult, disgrace, annoyance, to be offended
Indolent- want to avoid activity or exertion, lazy, lethargic, idle, lifeless
Conviction- the declaration of a judge in a court that someone is guilty of a criminal offence.
Restraint- self control, a moderate behaviour

Benifits of positive thinking
hallmark - traot, characteristic,
remission - reduction of symptus
relapses - detoriate, worsning of conditin
graditude - 

Story of spoons
disposition - temperment, tendancy
bleak - spiritless
foster - to develope
savour - test and enjoy to full

Shahrukh khan on gender neutrality
Assert-claim,declare
Cruitinity-scan,inspection
dissuade - diverting from the main topic.
Demacation - seperation, distinction, boundary line
ebbing - gradualy decay, diminish, wane


inevitable - unavoidable, unescapable, certainely
witty-humorous,comic
head overheels - crazy for something 
meadow - filed of grass

clear as crystal
majestic - realy realy grand
hitchhike - have lift and have free ride 
trecherous - very risky road, unfaithfull
scheptical - in dilima
craps - dead body

Rassia - Ukran war
foreseeable - that can be expected 
stewardship - job of supervisioning or taking care of something
unprecedented - never done or known before
Stranded - helpless
Shells - Militory, rowing, motoring


Pass up- to let go by without accepting or taking advantage of
Irons in the fire- don't try to do too many things at the same time; focus on one thing at a time
Sanguine- optimist, quite confident, very positive in bad situation also
Remorseless- if you are not guilty about/not regret about something
Monotonous- dull, tedious, repotious, lacking in variety or interest

Seashore Pictuer description
Rejuvenate - give new energy.
Leisure - Free time.
Bathers - a person swimming or spending time in the water.


Topic - Shashi Tharur Speech
OutSpoken
Deplomat

Meri Kom
Steeriotype - 

Verbal and action teaching - 

closefisted -  
go to dutch
shelling out
midas touch
receive a kickback
living hand to mouth
to be loaded
make ends meet
find your feet
spice things up
piece of cake
cool as cucumber
a couch potato
bring home a bacon 
In hot water
Compare apples with oranges
Not one's cup of tea
eat like bird


Assasian
Mideal
Proponents - advocate, supporter
Deception -  
Assaulting - tourture 
Anonymity - 
Concealed - kept secret, hidden
Forward scout - frontliner 
infiltrate - 
agility - 
creaking - 


Selena gomez
Queue up all - 
Stalking - 
heads up - 
cherish - 
pet peeve - something irritates me.
entiled to - 

Adob CEO
Poised - self possessed or self assured 
Helm - on the top

Amezon
fledgling - emergining
Morphed - transition
Colosus - very good inside, great important
Ladybugs - Insects 
dubbed - 
cadaver - dead body
billed - describe itself
inception
Drummed up - persistently try to change 

Superheroses fight
Squabble - fight over petty issues.
clad - different character trains come for 
dysfunctional - they dont have any work

Patently - Clearly, without doubt 
Elucidate - Make something clear, explain 
Lenient - more merciful or tolerernt that expected
Audacity - boldness 
Bemused - puzzled,  confused

Affront - insult 
Deftly - skilful and quick in movement 
Belittle - to make somebody or something feel un important or not very good
Hurtle - move uncontrolable manner 
Inconclusive - doesnt lead to conclusion

Grapevine - heard it from unknowwn source by mouth gossiping 
Respite - short period of rest from difficulties or unpleasant 
Usher - to show way
Ostensibly - seeming or stated to be real or true, but not necessarily real or true
Inevitable - unavoidable

Brooding - in deep thinking 
Tramp - walking tour

Tenacious - firm, strong, determined, tending to keep a firm hold of something
Fidelity - faith, faithfulness to a person, devotion
Order of the day - a characteristic or activity that is common during a particular period of time or in a particular situation
Guileless - devoid of guile, innocent, without deception
Ingenuous - innocent


Super Heros 
Plots - to plan to something
take over the world - wining it
malevolent - ill mindset, evil thoughts in mind
downright insane - very bad 
Obsessive pessimism
unwavering optimism
intriguing - improve curiacity 
sunny philosophy
subtly - light 
narrative
sub-genre
epidemic - 
flooded - over croweded 
poppy world 


etiquettes
deceptions or facade(fassad)
courteous - mannars
elegance - 

Modish - updated with latest trends 
a la mode 
flamboyant 
spooky - fear

Idioms
make headway
If you make headway, you make progess in what you are trying to achieve

going places
To show talent and ability that will no doubt lead to successfull futur.
Even at college it was evident that pranav was going to places

Seamy side of life
the most unpleasent, disreputable or sordid aspect of of life
social worker reaslly see the seamy side of life.

one's uppers
having little of no money/poor
Because he was clearly on his uppers when he was hired, he was given an advance in lary.

at all cost

blood sweat and tear.

beyond your wildest dreams

pull out all the stops

punch above your weight
 
crocheting
comprehensive - including everything or nearly everything that is connected with a particular subject, a guidebook giving comprehensive information on the area
comprehension - the ability to understand, The horror of war is beyond comprehension.

 
Up in arms - to be very angry
Extol- praise, applaud
Hapless- unfortunate, unlucky
Simulating - imitate the appearance or character of
Tremble - shivering, shake
Shrewd - canny, intelligent



jester - jocker or commedian
serenity - seriousness
stoiscim - a person who can endure pain or hardship without showing their feelings or complaining
tenet - one of the principles or beliefs that a theory or larger set of beliefs is based on
pedantic - too worried about rules or details, (used about people) giving too much attention to small details and therefore difficult to please
nitpicking- fussy or pedantic fault-finding.


intuitive - using or based on what one feels to be true even without conscious reasoning; instinctive.
example "his intuitive understanding of the readers' real needs"
Similar:
instinctive
intuitional
instinctual
innate
inborn
inherent
untaught



teem - be full of
"every garden is teeming with wildlife"
engross - Similar: preoccupy, absorb, engage, rivet, grip, hold, interest, catch
vividly - in a way that produces powerful feelings or strong, clear images in the mind.
counterpart - equivalent, opposite number, peer ,equal, parallel, complement
retrospective - backdated, retroactive, ex post facto, backward-looking
debilitating - tending to weaken something.


repercussion - an unintended consequence of an event or action, especially an unwelcome one.
Similler - consequence, result, effect, outcome, by-product, reverberation

conform - comply with rules, standards, or laws.
delimited - having fixed boundaries or limits.

disposal - distribution, discarding, the action or process of getting rid of something.

process is also blackbox to me.
pioneer - first invention
arcade - 
vague - not clear or not definite
stagnant - (used about water) not flowing and therefore dirty and having an unpleasant smell
humility - विनम्रता, विनयशीलता, the quality of not thinking that you are better than other people
ostensibly - apparently, seemingly, on the face of it,to all appearances
ostentatious - expensive or noticeable in a way that is intended to impress other people
wherein - in a place 
umbrage - 
cacophony - 
aquiver - 
Vamoose - depart hurriedly.
ubiquitous - seeming to be everywhere or in several places at the same time; very common
nefarious - criminal; immoral
Capricious - changing behaviour suddenly in a way that is difficult to predict
Boondoggle - an unnecessary, wasteful, or fraudulent project.
mellifluous - (used about music, somebody’s voice, etc.) sounding sweet and smooth; pleasant to listen to
Perfunctory - (used about an action) done quickly as a duty without any interest or feeling
vitriol  - bitter criticism or malice.
quagmire - a soft wet area of land that has a lot of mud

bewildered - हक्‍का-बक्‍का, किंकर्त्तव्यविमूढ़, विस्मित और चकराया हुआ
flummoxed - bewildered or perplexed.
perplexed - completely baffled; very puzzled.
baffled - "an unexplained occurrence that baffled everyone" 
- 
cajole - to persuade a person to do something or give something by being very nice to him/her, 
persuade - It was difficult to persuade Leela to change her mind.
dissuade - to persuade somebody not to do something, (किसी को कोई काम करने से) मना करना, रोकना

gregarious - liking to be with other people, लोगों से मिलना-जुलना पंसद करने वाला; मिलनसार, सुसामाजिक
Teetotaler - a person who does not drink alcohol 
abstaining - to stop yourself from doing something that you enjoy
Flabbergasted - extremely surprised and/or shocked, अत्‍यधिक चकित या/और स्‍तब्‍ध; हक्‍का-बक्‍का, भौंचक्‍का


adolescent - a young person who is no longer a child and not yet an adult, between the ages of about 13 and 17
compilation - a collection of pieces of music, writing, film, etc. that are taken from different places and put together
delve - to dig deep
